---
layout: post
published: false
title: >-
   SECAS steps up efforts to promote river cane restoration with a new indicator in the Blueprint
author: 'Louise Vaughn, User Support for the Southeast Blueprint'
hero:
  name: DoubleImperiledScreenshot.png
  alt: >-
    Maps of two new indicators in the 2025 version of the Southeast Blueprint - imperiled amphibians & reptiles and imperiled mammals. These maps show brightly colored priority areas against a gray basemap.
  caption: >-
    Two new indicators in the 2025 version of the Southeast Conservation Blueprint use habitat models for Southeast animal Regional Species of Greatest Conservation Need (RSGCN) to identify important areas for key reptiles, amphibians, and mammals, with special emphasis on species with restricted ranges, like narrow endemics.
  headerClass: light-text
  float: right
---
For the past few years, SECAS staff have been working to find a way to include river cane within the Southeast Blueprint. It took a while for us to get here, but through a lot of conversations, the work of our three Fellows (Alyssa Quan, Levi West, and Jennifer Byram), and a lot of help from our partners (especially Roger Cain, Ryan Spring, Michael Fedoroff, the Rivercane Restoration Alliance) river cane restoration is a part of the Blueprint and our regional strategy for connecting lands and waters. 
We still have work to do, but we welcome river cane restoration to our indicator family! 
Rivercane, which once formed vast canebrakes across the Southeast, has played a significant role in shaping both our landscapes, ecology, and sustaining cultural practices for many Indigenous communities since time immemorial. These canebrakes supported wildlife, provided important habitat, stabilized streambanks, and is considered a cultural keystone species. Today, they are largely gone.
The river cane indicator doesn’t map where cane has been observed, but rather it highlights priority places for restoration and co-stewardship, particularly near or on the lands of federally recognized Tribes. This indicator focuses on restoration opportunity, not just current condition. While we also say that the Blueprint includes both cultural and natural resource indicators, we consider the river cane indicator to reflect that ecological health and cultural significance are often inextricably intertwined as part of our landscape.
Like all Blueprint indicators, the rivercane restoration layer feeds into a larger prioritization process. Together, more than 60 indicators help identify the places where conservation action will make a difference for a connected network of lands and waters. Our hope is that this indicator can:
•	Help guide restoration funding 
•	Inform project siting and partnerships 
•	Elevate opportunities for Tribal co-stewardship 
•	Ensure that rivercane is considered alongside other regional priorities 
And because the Blueprint is updated regularly, we hope to be able to expand on this work. The indicator can continue to evolve as we learn more and deepen partnerships.
The work ahead is about turning this data into action by supporting restoration on the ground, strengthening partnerships, and continuing to learn from those who have long stewarded these landscapes.
Please reach out if we can help support your river cane restoration project or connect you to other partners working in this space. 

